federalist 84
certain general and miscellaneous
objections to the constitution
considered and answered
hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
in the course of the foregoing review of
the constitution i have taken notice of
and endeavored to answer most of the
objections which have appeared against
it there however remain a few which
either did not fall naturally under any
particular head or were forgotten in
their proper places these shall now be
discussed
but as the subject has been drawn into
great length i shall so far consult
brevity as to comprise all my
observations in these miscellaneous
points in a single paper
the most considerable of the remaining
objections is that the plan of the
convention contains no bill of rights
among other answers given to this it has
been upon different occasions remarked
that the constitutions of several of the
states are in a similar predicament i
add that new york is of the number
and yet the opposers of the new system
in this state who profess an unlimited
admiration for its constitution are
among the most intemperate partisans of
a bill of rights
to justify their zeal in this matter
they allege two things one is that
though the constitution of new york has
no bill of rights prefix to it yet it
contains in the body of it various
provisions in favor of particular
privileges and rights which in substance
amount to the same thing
the other is that the constitution
adopts in their full extent the common
and statute law of great britain by
which many other rights not expressed in
it are equally secured
to the first i answer that the
constitution proposed by the convention
contains as well as the constitution of
this state a number of such provisions
independent of those which relate to the
structure of the government we find the
following article 1 section 3 clause 7
judgment in cases of impeachment shall
not extend further than to removal from
office and disqualification to hold and
enjoy any office of honor trust or
profit under the united states but the
party convicted shall nevertheless be
liable and subject to indictment trial
judgment and punishment according to law
section 9 of the same article clause 2
the privilege of the writ of habeas
corpus shall not be suspended unless
when in cases of rebellion or invasion
the public safety may require it
clause 3 no bill of attender or ex-post
facto law shall be passed clause 7 no
title of nobility shall be granted by
the united states and no person holding
any office of profit or trust under them
shall without the consent of the
congress except of any present emolument
office or title of any kind whatever
from any king prince or foreign state
article 3 section 2 clause 3 the trial
of crimes except in cases of impeachment
shall be by jury and such trial shall be
held in the state where the said crimes
shall have been committed but when not
committed within any state the trial
shall be at such place or places as the
congress may by law have directed
section 3 of the same article treason
against the united states shall consist
only in levying war against them or
inadhering to their enemies giving them
aid and comfort no person shall be
convicted of treason unless on the
testimony of two witnesses to the same
overt act or on confession in open court
and clause 3 of the same section the
congress shall have power to declare the
punishment of treason but no attender of
treason shall work corruption of blood
or forfeiture except during the life of
the person attained
it may well be a question whether these
are not upon the whole of equal
importance with any which are to be
found in the constitution of this state
the establishment of the writ of habeas
corpus the prohibition of exposed
ex-post-facto laws and of titles of
nobility to which we have no
corresponding provision in our
constitution are perhaps greater
securities to liberty and republicanism
than any it contains
the creation of crimes after the
commission of the fact or in other words
the subjecting of men to punishment for
things which when they were done were
breaches of no law and the practice of
arbitrary imprisonment have been in all
ages the favorite and most formidable
instruments of tyranny the observations
of the judicious black stone we de
blackstone's commentaries volume 1 page
136 in reference to the latter are well
worthy of recital to bereave a man of
life says he or by violence to
confiscate his estate without accusation
or trial would be so gross and notorious
an act of despotism as must at once
convey the alarm of tyranny throughout
the whole nation but confinement of the
person by secretly hurrying him to jail
where his sufferings are unknown or
forgotten is a less public a less
striking and therefore a more dangerous
engine of arbitrary government and as a
remedy for this fatal evil he is
everywhere peculiarly emphatical in his
encomiums on the habeas corpus act which
in one place he calls the bulwark of the
british constitution we de blackstone's
commentaries volume 4 or page 438
nothing need be said to illustrate the
importance of the prohibition of titles
of nobility this may truly be
denominated the cornerstone of
republican government for so long as
they are excluded there can never be
serious danger that the government will
be any other than that of the people
to the second that is to the pretended
establishment of the common and state
law by the constitution i answer that
they are expressly made subject to
alterations and provisions as the
legislature shall from time to time make
concerning the same
they are therefore at any moment liable
to repeal by the ordinary legislative
power and of course have no
constitutional sanction
the only use of the declaration was to
recognize the ancient law and remove
doubts which might have been occasioned
by the revolution
this consequently can be considered as
no part of a declaration of rights which
under our constitutions must be intended
as limitations of the power of
government itself
it has been several times remarked that
bill of rights are in their origins
stipulations between kings and their
subjects abridgments of prerogative in
favor of privilege reservations of
rights not surrendered to the prince
such was magna carta obtained by the
barons sword in hand from king john such
were the subsequent confirmations of
that charter by succeeding princes such
was the petition of right ascended to by
charles the first in the beginning of
his reign such also was the declaration
of rights presented by the lords and
commons to the prince of orange in 1688
and afterwards thrown into the form of
an act of parliament called the bill of
rights
it is evident therefore that according
to their primitive signification they
have no application to constitutions
professionally founded upon the power of
the people and executed by their
immediate representatives and servants
here in strictness the people surrender
nothing and as they retain everything
they have no need of particular
reservations we the people of the united
states to secure the blessings of
liberty to ourselves and our posterity
to ordain and establish this
constitution for the united states of
america
here is a better recognition of popular
rights than volumes of those aphorisms
which make the principal figure and
several of our state bill of rights and
which would sound much better in a
treatise of ethics than in a
constitution of government
but a minute detail of particular rights
is certainly far less applicable to a
constitution like that under
consideration which is merely intended
to regulate the general political
interests of the nation than to a
constitution which has the regulation of
every species of personal and private
concerns
if therefore the loud clamors against
the plan of the convention on this score
are well founded no epithets of
reprobation will be too strong for the
constitution of this state
but the truth is that both of them
contain all which in relation to their
objects is reasonably to be desired
i go further and affirm that bill of
rights in the sense and to the extent in
which they are contended for are not
only unnecessary in the proposed
constitution but would even be dangerous
they would contain various exceptions to
powers not granted and on this very
account would afford a colorable pretext
to claim more than were granted
for why declare that things shall not be
done which there is no power to do
why for instance should it be said that
the liberty of the press shall not be
restrained when no power is given by
which restrictions may be imposed
i will not contend that such a provision
would confer a regulating power but it
is evident that it would furnish to men
disposed to usurp a plausible pretense
for claiming that power
they might urge with the semblance of
reason that the constitution ought not
to be charged with the absurdity of
providing against the abuse of an
authority which was not given
and that the provision against
restraining the liberty of the press
afforded a clear implication that a
power to prescribe proper regulations
concerning it was intended to be vested
in the national government
this may serve as a specimen of the
numerous handles which would be given to
the doctrine of constructive powers by
the indulgence of an injudicious zeal
for bill of rights
on the subject of the liberty of the
press as much as has been said i cannot
forbear adding a remark or two in the
first place i observe that there is not
a syllable concerning it in the
constitution of this state in the next i
contend that whatever has been said
about it in that of any other state
amounts to nothing what signifies a
declaration that the liberty of the
press shall be inviolably preserved what
is the liberty of the press who can give
it any definition which would not leave
the utmost latitude for evasion i hold
it to be impracticable and from this i
infer that its security whatever fine
declarations may be inserted in any
constitution respecting it must
altogether depend on public opinion and
on the general spirit of the people and
of the government
to show that there is a power in the
constitution by which the liberty of the
press may be affected recourse has been
had to the power of taxation it is said
that duties may be laid upon the
publications so high as to amount to a
prohibition
i know not by what logic it could be
maintained that the declarations of the
state constitutions in favor of the
freedom of the press would be a
constitutional impediment to the
imposition of duties upon publications
by the state legislatures
it cannot certainly be pretended that
any degree of duties however low would
be an abridgement of the liberty of the
press we know that newspapers are taxed
in great britain and yet it is notorious
that the press nowhere enjoys greater
liberty than in that country and if
duties of any kind may be laid without a
violation of that liberty it is evident
that the extent must depend on
legislative discretion respecting the
liberty of the press will give it no
greater security than it will have
without them
the same invasions of it may be affected
under the state constitutions which
contain those declarations through the
means of taxation as under the proposed
constitution which has nothing of the
kind
it would be quite as significant to
declare that government ought to be free
the taxes ought not to be excessive etc
as that the liberty of the press ought
not to be restrained
and here after all as is intimated upon
another occasion must we seek for the
only solid basis of all our rights
there remains but one other view of this
matter to conclude the point
the truth is after all the declarations
we have heard that the constitution is
itself in every rational sense and to
every useful purpose a bill of rights
the several bills of rights in great
britain form its constitution and
conversely the constitution of each
state is its bill of rights and the
proposed constitution if adopted will be
the bill of rights of the union
is it one object of a bill of rights to
declare and specify the political
privileges of the citizens in the
structure and administration of the
government this is done in the most
ample and precise manner in the plan of
the convention comprehending various
precautions for the public security
which are not to be found in any of the
state constitutions
is another object of the bill of rights
to define certain immunities and modes
of proceeding which are relative to
personal and private concerns
this we have seen has also been attended
to in a variety of cases in the same
plan
adverting therefore to the substantial
meaning of a bill of rights it is absurd
to allege that it is not to be found in
the work of the convention
it may be said that it does not go far
enough though it will not be easy to
make this appear but it can with no
propriety be contended that there is no
such thing
it certainly must be immaterial what
mode is observed as to the order of
declaring the rights of the citizens if
they are to be found in any part of the
instrument which establishes the
government
and hence it must be apparent that much
of what has been said on this subject
rests merely on verbal and nominal
distinctions entirely foreign from the
substance of the thing
another objection which from the
frequency of its repetition may be
presumed to be relied on is of this
nature
it is improper say the objectors to
confer such large powers as are proposed
upon the national government because the
seat of that government must of
necessity be too remote from many of the
states to admit of a proper knowledge on
the part of the constituent of the
conduct of the representative body
this argument if it proves anything
proves that there ought to be no general
government whatever for the powers which
it seems to be agreed on all hands ought
to be vested in the union cannot be
safely entrusted to a body which is not
under every requisite control
but there are satisfactory reasons to
show that the objection is in reality
not well founded there is in most of the
arguments which relate to distance a
palpable illusion of the imagination
what are the sources of information by
which the people in montgomery county
must regulate their judgment of the
conduct of their representatives in the
state legislature of personal
observation they can have no benefit
this is confined to the citizens on the
spot they must therefore depend on the
information of intelligent men in whom
they confide and how must these men
obtain their information
evidently from the complexion of public
measures from the public prints from
correspondences with their
representatives and with other persons
who reside at the place of their
deliberations this does not apply to
montgomery county only but to all the
counties at any considerable distance
from the seat of government it is
equally evident that the same sources of
information would be open to people in
relation to the conduct of their
representatives in the general
government and the impediments to a
prompt communication which distance may
be supposed to create will be over
balanced by the effects of the vigilance
of the state governments
the executive and legislative bodies of
each state will be so many sentinels
over the persons employed in every
department of the national
administration and as it will be in
their power to adopt and pursue a
regular and effectual system of
intelligence they can never be at a loss
to know the behavior of those who
represent their constituents in the
national councils and can readily
communicate the same knowledge to the
people their disposition to apprise the
community of whatever may prejudice its
interests from another quarter may be
relied upon if it were only from the
rival ship of power
and we may conclude with the fullest
assurance that the people through that
channel will be better informed of the
conduct of their national
representatives than they can be by any
means they now possess of that of their
state
representatives it ought also to be
remembered that the citizens who inhabit
the country at and near the seat of
government will in all questions that
affect the general liberty and
prosperity have the same interests with
those who are at a distance and that
they will stand ready to sound the alarm
when necessary and to point out the
actors in any pernicious project the
public papers will be expeditious
messengers of intelligence to the most
remote inhabitants of the union
among the many curious objections which
have appeared against the proposed
constitution the most extraordinary
and the least colorable is derived from
the want of some provision respecting
the debts due to the united states
this has been represented as a tacit
relinquishment of those debts and as a
wicked contrivance to screen public
defaulters
the newspapers have teamed with the most
inflammatory railings on this head yet
there is nothing clearer than that the
suggestion is entirely void of
foundation the offspring of extreme
ignorance or extreme dishonesty
in addition to the remarks i have made
upon the subject in another place i
shall only observe that as it is a plain
dictate of common sense so it is also
established doctrine of political law
that states neither lose any of their
rights nor are discharged from any of
their obligations by a change in the
form of their civil government
the last objection of any consequence
which i at present recollect turns upon
the article of expense
if it were even true that the adoption
of the proposed government would
occasion a considerable increase of
expense it would be an objection that
ought to have no weight against the plan
the great bulk of the citizens of
america are with reason convinced that
union is the basis of their political
happiness men of sense of all parties
now with few exceptions agree that it
cannot be preserved under the present
system nor without radical alterations
that new and extensive powers ought to
be granted to the national head and that
these require a different organization
of the federal government a single body
being an unsafe depository of such ample
authorities
in conceding all this the question of
expense must be given up for it is
impossible with any degree of safety to
narrow the foundation upon which the
system is to stand
the two branches of the legislature are
in the first instance to consist of 65
persons which is the same number of
which congress under the existing
confederation may be composed
it is true that this number is intended
to be increased but this is to keep pace
with the progress of the population and
resources of the country it is evident
that a less number would even in the
first instance have been unsafe and that
a continuance of the present number
would in a more advanced stage of
population be a very inadequate
representation of the people
whence is the dreaded augmentation of
expense to spring
one source indicated is the
multiplication of offices under the new
government let us examine this a little
it is evident that the principal
departments of the administration under
the present government are the same
which will be required under the new
there are now a secretary of war a
secretary of foreign affairs a secretary
for domestic affairs a board of treasury
consisting of three persons a treasurer
assistants clerks etc these officers are
indispensable under any system and will
suffice under the new as well as the old
as to ambassadors and other ministers
and agents in foreign countries the
proposed constitution can make no other
difference than to render their
character where they reside more
respectable and their services more
useful
as to persons to be employed in the
collection of the revenues it is
unquestionably true that these will form
a very considerable addition to the
number of federal officers but it will
not follow that this will occasion an
increase of public expense it will be in
most cases nothing more than an exchange
of state for national officers
in the collection of all duties for
instance the persons employed will be
wholly of the latter description the
states individually will stand in no
need of any for this purpose what
difference can it make in point of
expense to pay officers of the customs
appointed by the state or by the united
states there is no good reason to
suppose that either the number or the
salaries of the latter will be greater
than those of the former
where then are we to seek for those
additional articles of expense which are
to swell the account to the enormous
size that has been represented to us
the chief item which occurs to me
respects the support of the judges of
the united states
i do not add the president because there
is now a president of congress whose
expenses may not be far if anything
short of those which will be incurred on
account of the president of the united
states
the support of the judges will clearly
be an extra expense but to what extent
will depend on the particular plan which
may be adopted in regard to this matter
but upon no reasonable plan can it
amount to a sum which will be an object
of material consequence
let us now see what there is to
counterbalance any extra expense that
may attend the establishment of the
proposed government
the first thing which presents itself is
that a great part of the business which
now keeps congress sitting through the
year will be transacted by the president
even the management of foreign
negotiations will naturally devolve upon
him according to general principles
concerted with the senate and subject to
their final concurrence
hence it is evident that a portion of
the year will suffice for the session of
both the senate and of the house of
representatives we may suppose about a
fourth for the latter the third or
perhaps half for the former
the extra business of treaties and
appointments may give this extra
occupation to the senate from this
circumstance we may infer that until the
house of representatives shall be
increased greatly beyond its present
number there will be a considerable
saving of expense from the difference
between the constant session of the
present and the temporary session of the
future congress but there is another
circumstance of great importance in the
view of economy the business of the
united states has hitherto occupied the
state legislatures as well as congress
the latter has made requisitions which
the former have had to provide for
hence it has happened that the sessions
of the state legislatures have been
protracted greatly beyond what was
necessary for the execution of the mere
local business of the states more than
half their time has been frequently
employed in matters which related to the
united states
now the members who compose the
legislatures of the several states
amount to 2000 and upwards which number
has hitherto performed what under the
new system will be done in the first
instance by 65 persons and probably at
no future period by above a fourth or
fifth of that number
the congress under the proposed
government will do all the business of
the united states themselves without the
intervention of the state legislatures
who thenceforth will have only to attend
to the affairs of their particular
states and will not have to sit in any
proportion as long as they have
heretofore done this difference in the
time of the sessions of the state
legislatures will be clear gain and will
alone form an article of saving which
may be regarded as an equivalent for any
additional objects of expense that may
be occasioned by the adoption of the new
system
the result from these observations is
that the sources of additional expense
from the establishment of the proposed
constitution are much fewer than may
have been imagined that they are
counterbalanced by considerable objects
of savings and that while it is
questionable on which side the scale
will preponderate it is certain that a
government less expensive would be
incompetent to the purposes of the union
publius